Feature/pod level identity docs (#255)
awslabs/mountpoint-s3-csi-driver: docs/CONFIGURATION.md

# Configuring the Mountpoint for Amazon S3 CSI Driver

See [the Mountpoint documentation](https://github.com/awslabs/mountpoint-s3/blob/main/doc/CONFIGURATION.md) for
Mountpoint specific configuration.

## AWS Credentials

The Mountpoint CSI Driver can be configured to ingest credentials via two approaches: globally for the entire 
Kubernetes cluster, or using credentials assigned to pods.

### Driver Level Credentials

By setting driver-level credentials, the whole cluster uses the same set of credentials. 

Using this configuration, the credentials that are used are set at installation time, either using Service

> Accounts, or using K8s secrets. 

Reviewer: It would be nice to mention the order CRT uses to detect credentials. So customers would know e.g., if they set long-term credentials and IRSA, long-term credentials would always take precedence and IRSA won't be used.

Reviewer 2: Agree, so long as they are configurations we're committed to support.

Probably I'd focus on the two mechanisms we intend to support, which is IRSA and Kubernetes secrets (and we recommend against K8s secrets).

See [install.md](./install.md) for more details on this approach.

**TODO** - Migrate driver level setup here.

### Driver Level Credentials with IRSA

> Configuring [IAM Roles for Service Accounts](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/iam-roles-for-service-accounts.html) (IRSA)

Reviewer: Maybe we can briefly explain how this option can be used (i.e., setting IAM role on CSI Driver's service account)

is the recommended way to set up the CSI Driver if you want to use Driver Level credentials.

> ```mermaid

Reviewer: It would be nice to set a different color on credential source in the diagram if possible. i.e., "IAM Credentials - Driver" would be in a different color here to make it easy to understand

graph LR;
    CSI[CSI Driver]

    P["`Application Pod
    *Driver IAM Credentials*`"]

    SA_D[Service Account - Driver]
    SA_P[Service Account - Pod]

    IAM_D[IAM Credentials - Driver]
    IAM_P[IAM Credentials - Pod]

    PV[Persistent Volume]

>     PVC[PVC]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    PVC[Persistent Volume Claim]
```
to be consistent with the others

    P --> PVC

    PVC --> PV

    PV --> CSI

    CSI --> SA_D
    P --> SA_P

    SA_D --> IAM_D
    SA_P --> IAM_P
```

### Driver Level Credentials with K8s Secrets

> The Mountpoint CSI Driver also supports sourcing long term AWS credentials from k8s secrets, though this is not 
> recommended.

Reviewer 2: I'd recommend rephrasing this more like:

```suggestion
Where IAM Roles for Service Accounts (IRSA) isn't a viable option, Mountpoint CSI Driver also supports sourcing static AWS credentials from K8s secrets.

> [!WARNING]
> We do not recommend using long-term AWS credentials and K8s secrets. Instead, we recommend using short-term credentials with IRSA.
```

Author: I'm changing this to
> We do not recommend using long-term AWS credentials. Instead, we recommend using short-term credentials with IRSA.

and removing the bit about k8s secrets, as I don't think we should be against recommending their usage in general

```mermaid
graph LR;
    CSI[CSI Driver]

    P["`Application Pod
    *K8s Secret Credentials*`"]

    K8sS[K8s Secret]

    IAM_LT["Long Term IAM Credentials"]

    PV[Persistent Volume]
    PVC[PVC]

    P --> PVC

    PVC --> PV

    PV --> CSI

    CSI --> K8sS

    K8sS --> IAM_LT
```

By default, the CSI Driver checks the existence of a secret `aws-secret` in the installation namespace 
(default `kube-system`). 
The secret name configurable if installing with helm: `awsAccessSecret.name`, and the installation namespace is 
configurable with the `--namespace` helm parameter.

```bash
kubectl create secret generic aws-secret \
    --namespace kube-system \
    --from-literal "key_id=${AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID}" \
    --from-literal "access_key=${AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY}"
```

To use K8s secrets for authentication, the secret must exist before installation, or the CSI Driver pods must be 

> restarted to use the secret.

Reviewer: It's already implied with the current sentence – but it would be nice to mention that the credentials won't be refreshed once read.

> ### Driver Level Credentials with Node IAM Profiles

Reviewer: We don't order things by recommendation – but I prefer this option being before then long-term credentials

> ### Driver Level Credentials with Node IAM Profiles

Reviewer 2: Do we document this anywhere else? I'd be inclined to prefer IRSA over any other option, and not include this here.

Author: We currently document it in the installation document: https://github.com/awslabs/mountpoint-s3-csi-driver/blame/main/docs/install.md#L48

Reviewer 2: Ah, OK. I see also that with IRSA being EKS-only, then it makes sense to clarify this as an alternative.

Author: IRSA isn't technically EKS-only - though it's a lot more involved setting it up outside EKS. You'd need to set up an OIDC server: https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-service-account/#service-account-issuer-discovery

If I understand it, the EKS team don't 'support' it, but it works.

To use an IAM [instance profile](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_roles_use_switch-role-ec2_instance-profiles.html),
attach the policy to the instance profile IAM role and turn on access to [instance metadata](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/ec2-instance-metadata.html)
for the instance(s) on which the driver will run.

```mermaid
graph LR;
    CSI[CSI Driver]

    P["`Application Pod
    *Node Instance Profile*`"]

    IAM_Instance["Instance IAM Credentials"]

    PV[Persistent Volume]
    PVC[PVC]

    P --> PVC

    PVC --> PV

    PV --> CSI

    CSI --> IAM_Instance
```

> ## Pod Level Credentials

Reviewer 2: nit:

We're using pod-level as an adjective, so I think we want it hyphenated. Same with driver-level.

> Alternatively, you can configure the CSI Driver to use a pod's Service Account on your volumes. 

Reviewer 2: rephrase and newline?

```suggestion
You can configure Mountpoint CSI Driver to use the credentials associated with the pod's Service Account rather than the driver's own credentials.

```

With this approach, a multi-tenant architecture is possible using [IAM Roles for Service Accounts](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/iam-roles-for-service-accounts.html) (IRSA).

> Using Pod Level Credentials with IRSA authentication allows the Mountpoint CSI Driver to use multiple credentials for

Reviewer: Same with driver-level IRSA, it would be nice to explain how they can configure this option

Author: This is described below the diagram? Or am I misunderstanding you?

Reviewer: I meant like mentioning they need to annotate their service account with IAM role ARN and configure OIDC provider for their cluster. Just adding some basic information and linking to EKS guide would be sufficient in my opinion.

The role is then assumed by the CSI Driver for all volumes with a `driver` authentication source.

```mermaid
graph LR;
    CSI[CSI Driver]

    P["`Application Pod
    *Driver IAM Credentials*`"]

    SA_D[Service Account - Driver]
    SA_P[Service Account - Pod]

    IAM_D[IAM Credentials - Driver]
    IAM_P[IAM Credentials - Pod]

    PV[Persistent Volume]
    PVC[Persistent Volume Claim]

    P --> PVC

    PVC --> PV

    PV --> CSI

    CSI --> SA_D
    P --> SA_P

    SA_D --> IAM_D
    SA_P --> IAM_P

    style IAM_D stroke:#0000ff,fill:#ccccff,color:#0000ff
    style P stroke:#0000ff,fill:#ccccff,color:#0000ff
```

#### Service Account configuration for EKS Clusters

EKS allows [using Kubernetes service accounts to authenticate requests to S3](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/iam-roles-for-service-accounts.html). 
To set this up follow these steps:

##### Create a Kubernetes service account for the driver and attach the policy to the service account

> [!NOTE]
> The same service account name (`s3-csi-driver-sa`) must be specified both in this command and when creating a driver 

> > pod (in the pod spec `deploy/kubernetes/base/node-daemonset.yaml`, Helm value `node.serviceAccount.name`).

Reviewer: and `--service-account-role-arn` for `eksctl`/`aws eks`

Author: This note is just about configuring the name of the service account rather than the ARN role
